(DOCSP-31839): Update queryable fields for upcoming release (#565)
mongodb/docs-app-services: source/sync/configure/sync-settings.txt

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you configure Flexible Sync, you specify field names that your client
application can query in a Flexible Sync subscription. Fields that can be 
used in a subscription query are called **queryable fields**.

.. example::

   In a to-do list app, you might set ``assignee`` or ``owner`` 
   as queryable fields. On the client side, you can then query for tasks 
   whose ``assignee`` or ``owner`` matches the logged-in user. 

Queryable Field Scopes
``````````````````````

> Queryable fields apply to a scope you designate when you configure them. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queryable fields apply to a scope of collections you designate when you configure the fields. The
```
Suggestion: Just for clarity up front as to what the scope applies to.

two available scopes are:

- **Global queryable fields**: scoped across all collections in an App's Schema.
- **Collection queryable fields**: scoped to a single collection in the App.

You can use :ref:`rules and permissions <flexible-sync-rules-and-permissions>` 
to configure more granular access control on a per-collection basis. You 
can define collection-level rules and permissions for both global and 
collection queryable fields.

Configure Queryable Fields
``````````````````````````

You can automatically specify queryable fields by enabling :ref:`Development
Mode <development-mode>`. Development Mode allows App Services to automatically
mark fields as queryable as they are used. Queryable fields that you add

> through Development Mode become **collection queryable fields**.

Author: Updated

Each queryable field adds additional metadata storage to your Atlas cluster and
may lead to degraded write performance. You should have as few queryable fields
as needed by your application. A good rule of thumb is to have at most 10

> queryable fields. If you need to reduce storage usage or improve performance, 

Reviewer 2: I think this rule of thumb can be updated to something like "10 queryable fields applying to any single collection" to indicate that between an apps global+collection queryable fields they should aim for less than 10 to apply to any collection

you can remove unneeded queryable fields from your App. However, be aware

> of the consequences of adding or removing queryable fields detailed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the consequences of adding or removing queryable fields detailed below in the section, "Consequences of Adding or Removing Queryable Fields".
```
So reader knows where to expect the information. Think we mostly said no to linking to sections within pages, so including the title name will at least allow reader to use TOC.

> For additional considerations, refer to :ref:`optimizing performance and 

Author: Good note! I've added more details and an example here, and also built out an example on the "Optimize Sync Storage in Atlas" page.

storage when using Flexible Sync <optimizing-performance-and-storage-flexible-sync>`.

.. _fs-indexed-queryable-fields:

Indexed Queryable Fields
++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can improve performance for certain types of workloads by adding an
indexed queryable field. An **indexed queryable field** is a 

> **global queryable field** that is indexed in the history store, providing

Reviewer 2: I think `history store` is maybe leaking a bit implementation detail than is needed here. I think something like this is probably enough information

`An **indexed queryable field** is a special **global queryable field** that can be queried on more efficiently, providing improved Sync performance.`

Each queryable field adds additional metadata storage to your Atlas cluster and
may lead to degraded write performance. You should have as few queryable fields
as needed by your application, and scope them to the minimum number of 
collections required.

Many apps find a good balance between storage usage and query flexibility 
with at most 10 queryable fields applying to any single collection. 
For example, if you have 3 *global queryable fields* and 7 
*collection queryable fields*, you have 10 queryable fields that apply to the 
collection.

If you have a field that you only want to query in one collection, but it 
is configured as a *global queryable field*, this unnecessarily consumes 
Atlas storage space. For example, if you have a ``user`` field in every 
collection, but you only use it for Sync queries in one collection, scoping 
that as a *collection queryable field* reduces storage requirements. Reducing
the scope means that Sync does not have to maintain metadata for that field
for the other collections where you are not querying on the ``user`` field.

If you need to reduce storage usage or improve performance, you can remove 

> unneeded queryable fields from your App. However, be aware of the consequences 

Reviewer 2: The 'consequences of adding/removing a queryable field here' only apply while sync is running. Would you mind making a note about this here?

as an indexed queryable field.

Indexing a queryable field improves performance for simple queries on a 
single field, such as ``{“store_id”: 1}`` or  
``{“user_id”: “641374b03725038381d2e1fb”}``.

The indexed queryable field *must* appear in the schemas of all of your 
Sync collections, and it must use the same valid data type. For example,
if your indexed queryable field is ``store_id``, it must appear in all of
the collections you sync, and it must be the same valid type in all the
collections. For more information about eligible field types, refer to
:ref:`flexible-sync-eligible-field-types`.

**You Can't Change Indexed Queryable Field Values on the Client**

After you configure an indexed queryable field, client devices **cannot**
update an existing object's indexed queryable field value. For example,
if your indexed queryable field is ``store_id``, the client cannot change 
this value directly. Changing it from the client is not supported because 
it may conflict with other updates made to the object in the same timeframe. 

You can still change this value directly in the Atlas database. 

.. warning::

   Avoid changing an object's indexed queryable field value when 

>    possible. It may result in dropping other updates on the same 

Reviewer 2: This warning might be a bit scarier than it needs to be. This is not something that we explicitly want user's to avoid doing if it's necessary for their use case, but they should be aware that their write may clobber other updates.

What do you think about a warning like this?

`
Changing an object's indexed queryable field value through Atlas may overwrite concurrent client updates to the object.
`

Author: This is a good improvement - thanks! Updating to use this wording.

   * - | ``queryable_fields_names``
       | Array<String>
     
     - The :ref:`names of the global queryable fields <queryable-fields>` 
       that your client application can query to determine which data to 
       synchronize. These fields are queryable across all synced collections.

   * - | ``indexed_queryable_fields_names``
       | Array<String>
     

>      - The :ref:`names of the indexed queryable fields <fs-indexed-queryable-fields>` 

Reviewer 2: [nit] names -> name

We only allow one IQF at the moment even though this is an array. This is to allow us flexibility in the future for potentially supporting more than 1  IQF

Author: Updated to `name` and added more explicit info that this array may contain one element.

   * - | ``queryable_fields_names``
       | Array<String>
     
     - The :ref:`names of the global queryable fields <queryable-fields>` 
       that your client application can query to determine which data to 
       synchronize. These fields are queryable across all synced collections.

   * - | ``indexed_queryable_fields_names``
       | Array<String>
     

>      - The :ref:`name of the indexed queryable field <fs-indexed-queryable-fields>` 

Reviewer 2: Also probably worth noting here that the entry must also occur in `queryable_fields_names` since it needs to be a global queryable field
